OSDOCS-13735#adding DNS module (#92583)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/installation-gcp-managing-dns-solution.adoc

[NOTE]
====
If you enable user-managed DNS during installation, the installation program provisions DNS records for the API and Ingress services only within the cluster. To ensure access from outside the cluster, you must provision the DNS records in an external DNS service of your choice for the API and Ingress services after installation.
====

:FeatureName: User-provisioned DNS
include::snippets/technology-preview.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

.Prerequisites

* You installed the `jq` package.

.Procedure
. Use a text editor to edit the `install-config.yaml` file before you deploy your cluster and add the following stanza:
.. To enable your own DNS for control plane machines, compute machines, or both:
+
[source,yaml]
----
platform:
  gcp:
    userProvisionedDNS: Enabled <1>
----
<1> Enable DNS management.

[NOTE]
====

> For information about provisioning your DNS records for the API server and the ingress service, see "Optional: Provisioning your own DNS records".

Author: As the 'Enabling a user-managed DNS' and 'Optional: Provisioning your own DNS records' modules are in the same assembly, we can't add a hyperlink from one module to the other.  So, we're using the text "For information about...see "Optional: Provisioning your own DNS records".

[NOTE]
====
If you enable user-managed DNS during installation, the installation program provisions DNS records for the API and Ingress services only within the cluster. To ensure access from outside the cluster, you must provision the DNS records in an external DNS service of your choice for the API and Ingress services after installation.
====

:FeatureName: User-provisioned DNS
include::snippets/technology-preview.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

.Prerequisites

* You installed the `jq` package.

.Procedure
. Use a text editor to edit the `install-config.yaml` file before you deploy your cluster and add the following stanza:
.. To enable user-managed DNS:
+
[source,yaml]
----

> :FeatureName: User-provisioned DNS

Reviewer: ```suggestion
featureSet: CustomNoUpgrade
featureGates: ["GCPClusterHostedDNS=true"]

# ...
```

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="installation-gcp-enabling-user-managed-DNS_{context}"]
= Enabling user-managed DNS

> You can install a cluster with a DNS solution that you manage. As a result, you can manage the API and Ingress DNS records in your own system rather than managing the records in the cluster. For example, your organization's security policies might not allow the use of public DNS services such as Google Cloud DNS. In such scenarios, you can use your own DNS service to bypass the public DNS service. You can manage your DNS only for the IP addresses of the API and Ingress servers.

Reviewer 2: How about replacing the statements, with **exactly the same** statements in the RN https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/pull/93403 instead?

[NOTE]
====

> If you enable user-managed DNS during installation, the installation program will not provision DNS records for the API and Ingress servers. To ensure that you can log in to your cluster, you must provision the DNS records for the API and Ingress servers after installation.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If you enable user-managed DNS during installation, the installation program will provision DNS records for the API and Ingress servers only within the cluster. To ensure access from outside the cluster, you must provision DNS records in an external DNS service of your choosing for the API and Ingress services after installation.
```

====

.Prerequisites

* You installed the `jq` package.
* You installed the `gcloud` CLI tool.

.Procedure
. Use a text editor to edit the `install-config.yaml` file before you deploy your cluster and add the following stanza:
.. To enable your own DNS for control plane machines, compute machines, or both:
+
[source,yaml]
----
platform:
  gcp:
    userProvisionedDNS: Enabled <1>
----

> <1> Enable DNS management.

Reviewer 2: As [the feature](https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPSTRAT-990) is Tech Preview in 4.19, except the platform.gcp.userProvisionedDNS settings in install-config, the tech preview feature set/gates settings are also needed, for example, 
```
featureSet: CustomNoUpgrade
featureGates: ["GCPClusterHostedDNS=true"]

> . Use the `gcloud` CLI to find the IP address of the API server and then provision the corresponding DNS record.

Reviewer 2: This step along with the next step "_Use the gcloud CLI to find the IP address of the ingress service..._" should be moved to after `Deploying the cluster` and before `Logging in to the cluster by using the CLI`, rather than during `Creating the installation configuration file`.

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="installation-gcp-enabling-user-managed-DNS_{context}"]
= Enabling user-managed DNS

> You can install a cluster with a custom DNS solution that you manage. As a result, you can manage these records in your own system rather than managing the records in the cluster. For example, your organization's security policies might not allow the use of public DNS services such as Google Cloud DNS. In such scenarios, you can use your own DNS service to bypass the public DNS service. You can manage your DNS only for the IP addresses of the API server and the ingress service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can install a cluster with a DNS solution that you manage. As a result, you can manage the API and Ingress DNS records in your own system rather than managing the records in the cluster. For example, your organization's security policies might not allow the use of public DNS services such as Google Cloud DNS. In such scenarios, you can use your own DNS service to bypass the public DNS service. You can manage your DNS only for the API and Ingress servers.
```

[NOTE]
====

> To ensure that you can log in to your cluster, you must provision the DNS records for the API server and the ingress service consecutively, without interruption.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you enable user-managed DNS during installation, the installation program will not provision records for the API and Ingress servers. To ensure that you can log in to your cluster, you must provision the DNS records for the API and Ingress servers after installation.
```

> If you enable user-managed DNS during installation, the installation program will not provision records for the API and Ingress servers. To ensure that you can log in to your cluster, you must provision the DNS records for the API and Ingress servers after installation.

Reviewer 2: `the installation program will not provision records for the API and Ingress servers` -> `the installation program will not provision DNS records for the API and Ingress servers`, i.e. adding the word "DNS".

====

////
[NOTE]
====
After you install your cluster, you configure your external DNS, which must include records for `api.<cluster_name>.<base_domain>` and `*.apps.<cluster_name>.<base_domain>`.
====
////
.Prerequisites

* You installed the `jq` package.

> * You installed `gcloud`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* You installed the `gcloud` CLI tool.
```

.Procedure
. Use a text editor to edit the `install-config.yaml` file before you deploy your cluster and add the following stanza:
.. To enable your own DNS for control plane machines, compute machines, or both:
+
[source,yaml]
----
platform:
  gcp:
    userProvisionedDNS: Enabled <1>
----
<1> Enable DNS management.

> . Use the `gcloud` CLI to find the IP address of the API server and then provision your own DNS.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Use the `gcloud` CLI to find the IP address of the API server and then provision the corresponding DNS record.
```

.. Run the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ gcloud compute forwarding-rules describe --global "${infra_id}-apiserver" --format json | jq -r .IPAddress
----

> .. Use the IP address to provision your own DNS record to include `api.<cluster_name>.<base_domain>`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. Use the IP address to provision your own DNS record with the hostname `api.<cluster_name>.<base_domain>`, using your cluster name and base cluster domain.
```

> . Use the `gcloud` CLI to find the IP address of the ingress service and then provision your own DNS.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Use the `gcloud` CLI to find the IP address of the ingress service and then provision the corresponding DNS record.
```

.. To find the forwarding rule for the ingress service, run the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ ingress_forwarding_rule=$(gcloud compute target-pools list --format=json --filter="instances[]~${infra_id}" | jq -r .[].name)
----
.. To use the forwarding rule value to find the IP address of the ingress service, run the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ ingress_ip_address=$(gcloud compute forwarding-rules describe --region "${region}" "${ingress_forwarding_rule}" --format json | jq -r .IPAddress)
----

> .. Use the IP address to provision your own DNS record to include `*.apps.<cluster_name>.<base_domain>`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. Use the IP address to provision your own DNS record with the hostname `*.apps.<cluster_name>.<base_domain>`, using your cluster name and base cluster domain.
```
